So now you've had a chance to look at the parallel stream implementation
evaluate the pros and cons of this approach
And
of course
we're going to evaluate it in a couple ways when evaluated
in terms of comparing it to search for sequential streams
version in the law
Also evaluated
in terms of other approaches that may be even more scalable
Let's take a look at the pros
first
I think
clearly this example demonstrates the minuscule differences between sequential and parallel streams
Here's what it looked like with the surface sequential stream implementation
We saw earlier
And here's what it looks like with search with parallel streams
And as you can see
there's just one tiny minuscule difference and that's often the way things are so cool
You really have to step back and tip your hat and admire the genius of the people who came up with this framework because it's so powerful
So
convenient and scale
so nicely with
so little work on the part of a programmer
So I really am endlessly impressed with how clever the designers of java streams were to come up with this model
That was so easy to optimize and that's really the heart
Of course of parallel functional programming being able to keep a functional programming veneer of
of design and implementation and then magically paralyzed stuff
With very little work on your part
All the details are pushed into the infrastructure
which is the whole point of declarative programming in the first place
Even though we made very simple changes
We ended up with substantial speedups on the multi-core processor
If you take a close
look at this little screen and I show here
you can see that the best performance of the sequential streams model was roughly
I think about two thousand milliseconds on my quad core laptop
with lots of memory and the performance of The Parallel streams version with that little minuscule
change was about five times faster
four to five times faster
So is quite a big speed up and this is with a 2.7 gigahertz quad-core
Do a machine running Windows
I also have a MacBook Pro
which is a 2.9 gigahertz quad-core machine
which doesn't have as much memory
but the processes are faster
And if you look at the performance results
you'll see a similar Trend in terms of speed up
but you'll see that the performance is actually higher because it's a faster processor
So the key Point here is just
you know
your mileage may vary as a don't be surprised if that you run this on your machine and you get slightly different results
but I would expect if you've got multiple cores
that the parallel version will run considerably faster
And because it's inherently and embarrassingly parallel program searching for these different strains in in the works of Shakespeare searching for the phrases of the works of Shakespeare is embarrassing parallel
You would expect to see this type of Skillet
I should also point out to the searching for strings in the work of Shakespeare
Is a compute bound processes to compute Brown problem
And so there's really no Ayo happening here
We're just searching in memory to look for those those phrases of strength
The reason why we get there kind of super linear speed up
arises from the use of hyper threading in modern
multi-core processors
So these are what are also from school virtual cores
And the basic idea is that the piper threaded model increases the number of independent instructions that can run in parallel
by using what's known as a super Skinner architecture
And what does basically does is it allows more than one instruction to execute per clock cycle by simultaneously dispatching
multiple instructions to different execution units
So
if you take a look at that picture that's here
which you can read about at the Wikipedia link at the bottom of the slide
It's basically able to run the various operations in pipelines
where they end up running in parallel
Now
you don't typically get as much of a parallel boost as you do by having a physical core
but in the right circumstances things to do
in fact
run faster as we can see here
Well
as always
things are never entirely unicorns and rainbows as I like to say
so just because two miniscule
changes were needed to go from sequential street names to Carol Streams
doesn't mean it's the best way to go
So it turns out that there's other job of Frameworks
other concurrency
and parallelism Frameworks and strategies that are even more efficient than those simple changes
We made with a parallel streams of limitation
Now
before I bash the parallel streams version too much
Let's just know the couple things
First live performance
radically better with these other approaches if they're better
but they're not radically better
The other approaches took more work to implement and being able to get basically at Super linear speed up might be sufficient to meet your requirements
So it's not always necessary to rain in every last nanosecond of performance out of your software
You may just need to get it to the point where it meets the requirements of the customer of the user's
So this discussion really is not to throw shade on Parallel streams
It's to say that there's more advanced ways which we will cover
of course of making things
right
Even faster if you're willing to put a bit more work into it
Now
naturally
your mileage may vary and different factors like the amount of memory that you've got
and the version of the
the Java
Jdk you have will make a difference job
You were job aversions almost invariably add performance enhancements
They fix bugs
They optimize things
they make things run in parallel better
They removed internal locks and so on and so forth
So there's no substitute for systematic
benchmarking and experimentation
So just be aware of the fact that that's always important when you when you write parallel code
We will see in an upcoming lesson in the upcoming week
There is yet another
even more efficient way of doing this
which we have named search with parallel
split a writer
And as a name implies
This uses
the Perils of the techniques
We talked about so far plus adding the concept of parallel splitter Riders
And so
this turns out to be the
most aggressive pros
and strategy that we Implement
And as a consequence
it ends up being much finer-grained
And able to take you to more advantage of multiple course
And as you might expect
the more cores
you have the bigger when you will get from using even more perilous
That's another kind of tip to kind of keep in the back of your mind